Add non-graceful node shutdown blog article (#32403)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-04-19-non-graceful-node-shutdown.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.24: Introducing Non-Graceful Node Shutdown Alpha"
date: 2022-04-19T10:00:00-08:00
slug: kubernetes-1-24-non-graceful-node-shutdown-alpha
---

**Authors** Xing Yang and Yassine Tijani (VMware)

Kubernetes v1.24 introduces alpha support for [Non-Graceful Node Shutdown](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2268-non-graceful-shutdown). This feature allows stateful workloads to failover to a different node after the original node is shutdown or in a non-recoverable state such as the hardware failure or broken OS.

## How is this different from Graceful Node Shutdown

> You might have heard about the [Graceful Node Shutdown](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/21/graceful-node-shutdown-beta/) feature and are wondering how the Non-Graceful Node Shutdown feature is different from that. Graceful Node Shutdown introduced a way to detect a node shutdown and handle it gracefully. A Node Shutdown can be `Graceful` only if the node shutdown action can be detected by Kubelet's Node Shutdown Manager. However, there are cases where a node shutdown action may not be detected by Kubelet's Node Shutdown Manager. This could happen either because the shutdown command does not trigger the inhibitor locks mechanism used by Kubelet or because of a user error, i.e., the `ShutdownGracePeriod` and `ShutdownGracePeriodCriticalPods` are not configured properly.

Reviewer: How about this:
```markdown
You might have heard about the [Graceful Node Shutdown](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#graceful-node-shutdown) capability of Kubernetes,
and are wondering how the Non-Graceful Node Shutdown feature is different from that. Graceful Node Shutdown
allows Kubernetes to detect when a node is shutting down cleanly, and handle that situation appropriately.
A Node Shutdown can be “graceful” only if the node shutdown action can be detected by the kubelet ahead
of the actual shutdown. However, there are cases where a node shutdown action may not be detected by
the kubelet. This could happen either because the shutdown command does not trigger the systemd inhibitor
locks mechanism that kubelet relies up, because of a system fault, or because of a configuration error
(the `ShutdownGracePeriod` and `ShutdownGracePeriodCriticalPods` are not configured properly).

Graceful node shutdown relies on Linux-specific support. The kubelet does not watch for upcoming
shutdowns on Windows nodes (this may change in a future Kubernetes release).
```

I wrapped it. Articles are either to review and to localize if you write the text with line breaks.

Author: Updated with your suggestion. The only thing I didn't take is this line "because of a system fault" because this is not necessarily true. When I tested Graceful Node Shutdown on my setup, only one of the three shutdown commands listed here (https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/21/graceful-node-shutdown-beta/#how-does-it-work) worked. When I shut down a VM from the vSphere UI, it does not trigger the inhibitor locks either.

> When a node is shutdown but not detected by Kubelet's Node Shutdown Manager, the pods that are part of a StatefulSet will be stuck in terminating status on the shutdown node and cannot move to a new running node. As a result, the application running on the StatefulSet cannot function properly. If the original shutdown node comes up, the pods will be deleted by Kubelet and new pods will be created on a different running node. If the original shutdown node does not come up, these pods will be stuck in terminating status on the shutdown node forever.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a node is shutdown but but without the kubelet having an opportunity to detect it, Pods on that node
also shut down ungracefully. For stateless apps, that's often not a problem (a ReplicaSet adds a new Pod once
the cluster detects that the affected node or Pod has failed). For stateful apps, the story is more complicated.
If you use a StatefulSet and have a Pod from that StatefulSet on a node that fails uncleanly, that affected Pod
will be marked as terminating; the StatefulSet cannot create a replacement Pod because the existing Pod
still exists in the API.
As a result, the application running on the StatefulSet may be degraded or even offline. If the original, shut
down node comes up again, the kubelet on that original node reports in, deletes the existing Pods, and
the control plane makes a replacement Pod for that StatefulSet (possible on a different node).
If the original node has failed and does not rejoin your cluster, those stateful pods would be stuck ina
terminating status on that failed node indefinitely.
```

```

> # kubectl get pod -o wide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl get pod -o wide
```
so that we don't encourage folks to run `kubectl` as the superuser.

Or follow the docs style guide and [separate commands from their output](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#separate-commands-from-output).

NAME    READY   STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE   IP           NODE                      NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
web-0   1/1     Running       0          100m   10.244.2.4   k8s-node-876-1639279816   <none>           <none>
web-1   1/1     Terminating   0          100m   10.244.1.3   k8s-node-433-1639279804   <none>           <none>
```

> ## How does it work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Try out the new non-graceful shutdown handling
```

> To use the Non-Graceful Node Shutdown feature, the `NodeOutOfServiceVolumeDetach` feature gate needs to be enabled on `kube-controller-manager`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the non-graceful node shutdown handling, you must enable the `NodeOutOfServiceVolumeDetach`
[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) for the `kube-controller-manager`
component.
```

> In the case of a node shutdown, if the graceful shutdown is not working or the node is in a non-recoverable state due to a hardware failure or broken OS, the user can manually add a `out-of-service’ taint on the Node. For example, this can be `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoExecute` or `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoSchedule`. This will trigger pods on the node to be forcefully deleted if there are no matching tolerations on the pods. Persistent volumes attached to the shutdown node will be detached, and new pods will be created successfully on a different running node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of a node shutdown, you can manually taint that node as out of service. You should make certain that
the node is truly shutdown (and won't restart during maintenance) before you add that taint. You could add that
taint following a clean shutdown that the kubelet did not detect and handle in advance; another case where you
can use that taint is when a node has failed and you are taking it out of service. 
The values you set for that taint can be `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown: "NoExecute"`
or `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:" NoSchedule"`.
provided you have enabled the feature gate as I mentioned earlier, setting the out-of-service taint on a Node
means that pods on the node will be deleted (unless you happened to have set matching tolerations on the pods).
Persistent volumes attached to the shutdown node will be detached, and for StatefulSets, replacement pods will
be created successfully on a different running node.
```

Reviewer 2: I prefer original sentence: 
```
In the case of a node shutdown, if the graceful shutdown is not working or the node is in a non-recoverable state due to a hardware failure or broken OS
```
because even if when the node is not truly shutdown, when the node has hardware failure or its OS is broken, pods on the node will be stuck in terminating status.

FYI: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-storage/2268-non-graceful-shutdown#proposal

> In the case of a node shutdown, if the graceful shutdown is not working or the node is in a non-recoverable state due to a hardware failure or broken OS, the user can manually add a `out-of-service’ taint on the Node. For example, this can be `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoExecute` or `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoSchedule`. This will trigger pods on the node to be forcefully deleted if there are no matching tolerations on the pods. Persistent volumes attached to the shutdown node will be detached, and new pods will be created successfully on a different running node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the case of a node shutdown, if the graceful shutdown is not working or the node is in a non-recoverable state due to a hardware failure or broken OS, the user can manually add a `out-of-service` taint on the Node. For example, this can be `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoExecute` or `node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoSchedule`. This will trigger pods on the node to be forcefully deleted if there are no matching tolerations on the pods. Persistent volumes attached to the shutdown node will be detached, and new pods will be created successfully on a different running node.
```

```

> kubectl taint nodes <node-name> node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoExecute

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ kubectl taint nodes <node-name> node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoExecute
```

> # kubectl get pod -o wide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl get pod -o wide
```
so that we don't encourage folks to run `kubectl` as the superuser.

Or follow the docs style guide and [separate commands from their output](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#separate-commands-from-output).

NAME    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE    IP           NODE                      NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
web-0   1/1     Running   0          150m   10.244.2.4   k8s-node-876-1639279816   <none>           <none>
web-1   1/1     Running   0          10m    10.244.1.7   k8s-node-433-1639279804   <none>           <none>
```

> Note: Before applying the `out-of-service` taint, the user must verify that a node is already in shutdown or power off state (not in the middle of restarting), either because the user intentionally shut it down or the node is down due to hardware failures, OS issues, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Before applying the out-of-service taint, you **must** verify that a node is already in shutdown or power off state (not in the middle of restarting), either because the user intentionally shut it down or the node is down due to hardware failures, OS issues, etc.
```

> Note: We require the user to manually remove the `out-of-service` taint after the pods are moved to a new node and the user has checked that the shutdown node has been recovered since the user was the one who originally added the taint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all the workload Pods that are linked to the out-of-service node are gone, you should remove
that taint on the affected node. If you know that the node will not return to service, you could instead
delete the node from the cluster.
```

## What’s next?

Depending on feedback and adoption, the Kubernetes team plans to push the Non-Graceful Node Shutdown implementation to Beta in either 1.25 or 1.26.

This feature requires a user to manually add a taint to the node to trigger workloads failover and remove the taint after the node is recovered. In the future, we plan to find ways to automatically detect and fence nodes that are shutdown/failed and automatically failover workloads to another node.

## How can I learn more?

> Check out additional documentation on this feature [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/).

Reviewer: The documentation for this feature belongs in https://k8s.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/

means that pods on the node will be deleted unless if there are matching tolerations on the pods.
Persistent volumes attached to the shutdown node will be detached, and for StatefulSets, replacement pods will
be created successfully on a different running node.

```
$ kubectl taint nodes <node-name> node.kubernetes.io/out-of-service=nodeshutdown:NoExecute

$ kubectl get pod -o wide
NAME    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE    IP           NODE                      NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
web-0   1/1     Running   0          150m   10.244.2.4   k8s-node-876-1639279816   <none>           <none>
web-1   1/1     Running   0          10m    10.244.1.7   k8s-node-433-1639279804   <none>           <none>
```

Note: Before applying the out-of-service taint, you **must** verify that a node is already in shutdown or power off state (not in the middle of restarting), either because the user intentionally shut it down or the node is down due to hardware failures, OS issues, etc.

Once all the workload Pods that are linked to the out-of-service node are moved to a new running node, and the shutdown node has been recovered, you should remove

> that taint on the affected node. If you know that the node will not return to service, you could instead

Reviewer 3: on the affected node after the node is recovered

Author: Done

If you know that the node will not return to service, you could instead delete the node from the cluster.

## What’s next?

Depending on feedback and adoption, the Kubernetes team plans to push the Non-Graceful Node Shutdown implementation to Beta in either 1.25 or 1.26.

This feature requires a user to manually add a taint to the node to trigger workloads failover and remove the taint after the node is recovered. In the future, we plan to find ways to automatically detect and fence nodes that are shutdown/failed and automatically failover workloads to another node.

## How can I learn more?

> Check out additional documentation on this feature [here](https://k8s.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the [documentation](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#non-graceful-node-shutdown)
for non-graceful node shutdown.
```

Author: Done
